And President Williams gave us the money to buy his
equipment. Oh, Williams. Jack. Jack Williams and
Dr. Gammon, Ray Gammon, were born 30 miles apart.
Huh. He ride on the edge of the Virginia border,
didn't he? Yep. And Galax. Is it Galax? Oh, it's
from Galax. Galax. And Dr. Gammon and we were on the
railroad. And we're not quite sure whether his
town is in one county or the other. One county
doesn't have too good a reputation. If I were
kidding Williams, which I haven't had a chance to
do, I'd say his hometown is at the end of a little
one-horse spur that goes south from Pulaski. Yes,
it's just a line. We had the through line where we
lived right there at River Creek with the highest
point. of the line of the railroad, the Southern
Railroad, between New York, Washington, and New
Orleans. So you see it's very nice there, but
they've taken most of it off. Do you have any
recollections of Dean Bolton as a man? Dean
Bolton? Dean Bolton was positive. That's what I
would say about him. But he was kindly. We've had
very nice relationship with him. Mrs. Bolton was,
you could see the humor in everything. She was
quite a laugher. Rather motherly, I would say. I
would say rather motherly, speaking of Mrs.
Bolton. Mrs. Bolton? Mrs. Bolton was that, too.
Mrs. Bolton was lovely and gave the loveliest
parties imaginable. Let me think now about
Bolton. Well, we were on two sides in a church
discussion.
I remember Ray brought up a, this is your
information. It's not going on there, is it? Well,
I can take it off if you want me to. I don't care. Oh,
is it still running? Oh, yes, it's running. Oh,
well, I remember we were on two sides of a church
situation that's not very pleasant. And it's
better to be. on two points, politically then,
enthusiastically. And I remember when you made a
parliamentary statement, which was new to the
smart aleck you. And I remember Bolton turned
around real suddenly to look as much as to say, now
who's opposing me? But it wasn't ugly. It was just
his nature. So that's all I know. Did you have
occasion to work with him very often in your
capacity? Yes. He was dean of the college. Yes. And
not in charge of the history department
especially unless it was something related to the
college properly. I remember something. No,
Bolton, I got along very well when we had the
conference. Oh, sure. We all got along very well.
But Bolton and you, you had been thinking about
great issues course and Bolton had two and I can't
remember how you got together on that but he was the
staff at the great issues course bringing people
in here including uh Churchill uh Churchill's son
Randolph Churchill and uh many other prominent
people and uh so no Marshall was up there in Austin
and uh And they worked that out. And it was, I
believe, much more sort of academically oriented
than it is now. Now the students have taken it over,
and that's all right. But
do you think perhaps students have taken over too
much of everything? I don't know. And I don't think
we will know until we see the long run effect of it.
Well, I mean, all over the country. Not here so
much. Yes, in other places. Well, here we are
military. Here we are. We have become a little more
student-oriented here, but not nearly so much as
the rest of the country. Out in California? Oh,
yes. Oh, that's terrible. But as far as that's
concerned, it's all over. The young are not very
satisfied, and I cannot say that I blame them.
Well, did you notice when Vice President Ford was
here, did you happen to watch the news that night.
And they said on national television, at
conservative Texas A&M University. So we still
have the label. That is a conservative element
here from the beginning. They dressed
conservatively. Our dinner dresses were
conservative. I remember thinking that somebody
who was more chic and interested in being modern,
we did have some people like that. who were
atheists and very, very modern, and what we would
call modern. And I think even now, we might say they
were more radically inclined. But I noticed that
her dinner dresses were conservative, just like
mine. So it was. The whole place was conservative.
They didn't want drunks living here or teaching
here. And they didn't want loose living people
here. There was another divorce, and two
divorces, but one was quite a few years earlier.
And then another divorce, and the two married.
They were not here after that year, you see? And
that was not under Walton. I think it was under
Bolton, wasn't it? Or anyway, there was a trip down
to Houston. There was one of the men. He's not here
anymore. I could give you the name because I have a
play on his name. Call it something slightly
different, but still like his. And he made rather
verbal, improper advances to one of the
secretaries. who reported it. And I think it was
the dean's secretary, a very nice looking young
woman. And it was reported to the then Dean Bolton,
the dean of the college. Or he may have been
president. No, he was dean then. But he was given 24
hours to get out. And it blew up. Well, I should not
give names. But it blew up a little organization,
which was very, very, very, you know. And one of the
members later told me, she is not living now, that
wasn't it good that that happened before he and I
were going to give a party together. I could tell
you the names, and it's really fun. It's a story.
It's a story. How was the social life living on the
campus? Oh, fine. Oh, fine. Did you play bridge?
Did you have teams together? Bridge, a good bit of
bridge. But we gave up bridge because, and I'll
tell you what we used to have. We used to have the
cadets as babysitters for our young children.
That's wonderful. Now that is about, we had one for
years. And he would come and do his lessons. Our
children were quiet and well-behaved, but they
had funny streets to them too, for instance.
Samarie used big words and astounded everybody by
his big words. And Billy was our elder son. Let's
see up there. Was asked by our younger son at a
certain period in his life when Camp stared him in
the face. And he asked his elder brother, Camp,
would you go to Camp? And Billy, for less than so,
said, No, they make you have fun. So you see, there
are lots of fun. And then I told you about the
children roamed all over the campus, that nice
little campus of that little place we went to with
only 2,000 students and six or eight PhDs. The
children could roam all over the campus. And when
the 5 o'clock whistle blew, we almost knew what
time it was. Because we had that 8 o'clock whistle,
the 12 o'clock whistle, the 1 o'clock whistle, and
the 5 o'clock whistle. And when the 5 o'clock siren
was a-bloo, all the children came home. It was
beautiful. So you see, there were so many sort of
home-like things. And Dr. Walton was right. It was
sort of we looked after each other. I remember Mrs.
Riley once called me up and said, Billy, Only about
five. Yeah, he was five years old. And he was
heading for a kindergarten, a little spring up
kindergarten. We had all sorts of little things
that the mothers would get excited about our
children should have. And that was not
grammatical. And so Billy was walking down the
street past the Dean Friley home just a stone's
throw from us. And on his way to this little sort of
impetuous kindergarten, it just sprang up
itself. And he was wading in the gutter where there
was flowing water. So Mrs. Crowley called me up and
said, your son Billy is walking in the water that's
flowing down the gutter. He'll get his feet wet.
And you see how we looked after each other? So I went
down and got home and got his shoes and socks
changed. Let's see. What else? Any personal
touches about people? Are you trying to dig out
any? No. You just want things as they are. These
people are gone now. And not many people remember
things about them, what type of people they were.
And I'm afraid it will be lost. That's what we're
interested in. What kind of people were they?
You're interested in the people as opposed or
different from the college itself, from the
university itself. And how it colored the
university. I see what you're trying to do. I think
I'll write that up myself and maybe get it
published and make a lot of money. Oh, and I'll tell
you what we had. We had a, oh, you must get that. We
had the people on the campus and then later those
that moved south of the campus when the campus
became too crowded and the college grew larger and
expanded and had more faculty as a matter of
course. They moved south, which developed that
way later.
The division across Texas Avenue was a later
development. But south of the campus, they called
it Oakwood, and they called it West Park, and they
called it College. College Park was over here. But
let me see. I want to get back to where I grew up. When
we had to move, oh, that was in 39. We moved back here
in 41.
Martinson built our house. And look how straight
the lines still are after all these years. It's a
wonderful, a wonderful builder. And, uh.
But I was trying to think. Dr. Clark. F.B. Clark?
Yep. F.B. Clark. I knew him. Clark Barzilla, in
other words. Uh, Barzilla Clark. I knew him at
Hopkins, where he was getting his degree in
political science. But there was no political
science department here. It was part of the
history department. So he shifted to his minor,
which was political economy. I knew him very well.
In fact, I could show you pictures of where we had
been in picnics together. I was a library
assistant there at Johns Hopkins. in a certain
section that we had departments allowed. That's
very unusual. We should follow you here. And
that's where we found each other. And
in, let's see, I want to get back to the thing. I want
to tell you that it seemed important then. Well,
anyway, Dr. Clark then, no, he didn't follow us.
Oh, you followed? He went up to the University of
Pennsylvania, I think, first and married Ruth.
And Ruth Clark and the Clarks, we were pretty good
friends. But they never lived on the campus in our
time. They had lived there some years before, but
had built south there where he had bought up a whole
lot of properties, he's a good economist, and was
parceling it out. And that grew very quickly. So we
had friends out there, the Adamses, the Clarks,
oh, ever so many. came in later or had moved from the
campus because they wanted to be, they wanted to
live in their own home instead of what our son
called the campus . And so a good many people moved
out there, but that was still part of the campus in a
way. Now I'm on to what I want to tell you. We had a
social club, the A&M College Social Club, or the
thing we called the Women's Social Club. But
anyway, we had regular meetings and programs and
refreshments, very tiresome. No, they weren't
tiresome when we were all fixing them by
ourselves. But when the college took over, it was
punch and cookies, cookies and punch, punch and
cookies, cookies and punch. But we had a very good
time there together and made a big to-do over the
newcomers that they came in. We had sometimes
programs. In fact, Ruth Clark, Dr. F.B. Clark's
wife, who died quite a few years ago, bless her, she
was sweet. I always called her Gentle Ruth. She was
program chairman, and she asked me to take over her
program. And I didn't do a thing but put on
something that I had put on up at Austin College, a
pantomime. Somebody reading, I did the reading.
And I have, you may have noticed, pretty clear
enunciation. That's because I'm bilingual. And I
put that on. It was a tale poking a little bit of fun
at everything. And I read it. I had the two
ministers' wives rolled up in a sheet, holding a
sheet in front. Then I made them roll themselves up
in the sheet. And that made the proscenium, you
see, the stage setting. And I remember many other
things. We had a circus one. Somebody, Joe
Wolcott. Do you know Joe Wolcott? No, I don't
believe so. The name's familiar. Well, they
hadn't been here, I believe, as long as we, and did
not live on the campus. I think they moved out there
right away. He was a sister. And she's in the
hospital, so it's no use. And he has cataract
trouble. And we knew them not too well, but when we
saw each other at the ophthalmologist, we were
just so happy to see each other. I remember
several, she put on a circus, I remember, once
there. Then we also had the campus study club,
which was a study of, literatures and poetries and
so on. And I think I stumped them all by putting on
one. And they always liked it. I always got picked
on to make up programs. And I remember I did one on
world literature. Well, that took and Tolstoy and
pushed in the Russians. And that was all new. But it
wasn't new to us, because we, as you see, are
readers. And we got a lot of books in there, too. and
some upstairs, and some in the corner in the front
hall, which I'm trying to give away. And so those
two organizations tied us together too, you see,
the social club. And the social club, this is
important, every Christmas gave a Christmas
party to the students who didn't go home, or
couldn't go home, or didn't want to go home, or were
unable to go home. We gave a party for them at
Christmas. And that was quite a big party. And I
think it was Christmas Eve we got it. We did it. And
of course, everybody went to it. Everybody on the
campus. All the people sitting close. Where did
they hold it? And the students, though the
students were a little hold office on
invitations. That hall was always available. Oh,
I see. Yeah. What was always there? Where did they
hold it? Oh, I know why. I know why. The same old wife
without the solariums. They didn't have the
solariums on that big. That was Mr. Cashin.
But I think Mrs. Cashin, who's still living, is not
as actively involved in this whole situation as we
were. Of course, Mrs. Camel, but I doubt that you
can interview her. But they came about a year or two
before we did. But Mrs. Marsh stole her. But that
won't do. She died some years ago saying she had had
a happy life, a good, hot life. And she was going
well satisfied and grateful for what she'd had.
She was very fine. But she was, I think, born on the
campus. Or at least her father was head of the
English department fountain. There's a plaque in
the light. meeting room of the YMCA dedicated to
fountains. And I do not know, I believe there's
some fountains living in town in Nice, because so
many people, when they came here, their families
dragged along. But we didn't. They were in
Virginia. But so many came here, including the
Cashin family, the Walton family, the Maristella
family. And I don't know the other Walton family.
And so they settled around here. But I believe the
Fountain family are too far out, probably
grandniece and so on. But Mrs. Marskeller could
have told you way, way back then when they used to
have to drive to Bryan. I've heard her. Drive to
Bryan in their buggies. People didn't have cars so
much in those days. And the road was kind of. Of
course, the roads were muddy here when we first
came out here. This was developed. There have been
the college people and the Brown people have
developed so many subdivisions around here and
made millions. You see, college is quite a place to
make your millions anyway. And for a while, there
was antagonism between college and Brown. But I
think that sort of petered out, except maybe some
of the old timers. But we lived on the campus, and we
moved to Bryant, you see. So we didn't have that at
all. I mean, we were too busy having other things
and doing other things. We didn't have time for
stuff like that. But I think that's all right now.
But you see, I don't know if you're a historian
enough to know the antagonism that has always
existed from medieval times. Isn't that so? Town
and gown. Town and gown, always. Town and gown.
Right. Well, that's way back from medieval times.
Yes, ma'am. And I think it was that, uh, at
Washington and Lee to, but not at Johns Hopkins.
Johns Hopkins wasn't that one of the first that
gave PhDs in history. It's one of the oldest. I
don't remember what I believe it was. They
advanced. It was one of the most advanced
higher education, that is, beyond the four-year
collegiate. And so, of course, I think, but I think
Doug Gammon followed his head of department at
Washington and Lee, who went to Johns Hopkins and
knew all sorts of important people, including
Woodrow Wilson, my friend. You remember? Oh, we
had so many funny things. Oh, well, I didn't. We
don't think about them. Now we've gotten to
thinking about them. What else? Anything else you
want? I can't remember any crimes. No, not
interested in that particularly. There wasn't
anything like that. It was so peaceful. Well,
that's probably part of it. That campus, it was
secure. What do you remember about the early days
of the Depression, the effect upon the students,
the effect upon the school? The early days? Say
1929 on, with the start of the Depression. Our
appropriations from the legislature were not
badly reduced. Cut down a little bit in the
interest of the economy, But we didn't suffer.
Being state supported, we suffered about as
little as any of them. We were reduced how much? One
quarter. But we had two years warning. So as I told
Helen Summitt, I said, we're cutting ourselves
right now. Then we'll be prepared for that. In
other words, we didn't suffer at all. We still went
to Virginia. We began laying aside in time. We used
to go to Virginia. You'd see practically every
summer, get up in that lovely summer. But later
that legislature over there in Austin, am I
pointing in the right direction? Anyway, I point.
You see, that's disrespectful.
They didn't understand why professors should
teach only four to five hours a day. They should
have a full load, like a construction worker. Not
coming to your land. I mean, part of architecture.
No, I'm a historian. I'm not an architect. Oh,
you're not an architect? I thought you were in the
architect department. No, no, I'm a historian.
Oh, you're a teacher in the history department?
I'm an archivist. Your husband could tell you the
differences. I'm a keeper of manuscripts and
papers.
archivist rather than architect.
Well, we like the word archivist very well. That
fits our way of thinking. In fact, when we had to
have a heritage club,
an organization, a committee in the church to
preserve all the artifacts and all that, we had
quite a little time on what to call it. And of
course, our inclination was bookish. And we
thought, our kind. But the rest of them were more
emotionally interested in it. So it got called
Heritage Club, Heritage Committee. And we're on
it. And in fact, we gave them, we're older now, and
we can't do as much. So we feel that we should give
more. And so we had given there. And we've also
gone. We went to the meeting, I believe it was last
Sunday. before yesterday, a week ago. And we gave
them some bookcases. Oh, that doesn't need to go on
that. It doesn't need to go on that. Scratch it. I
will. Take it. When I thought, oh, well, we'll give
those two old bookcases, a six-section, glassed
in to put their books and other, oh, so many papers,
so many pictures. You ought to see what they have
over there. Is this the first church? Right here?
First Presbyterian Church in Bryan, asked to see
it. And though we haven't got everything out that
we need to have. And those six bookcases were given
to Dr. Gavin in two Christmases by his father in
1906 or so, when they had just been patented in
1905. Because he was bookish, and his father
encouraged it. And the reason he went to Austin
College to try out teaching in the prep
department, through the influence of two of the
Mann family friends, because he loved books and
had so many and received so many, just like our
family did. Our family would sit around reading in
utter silence for an evening. And then we'd notice
that there was something different. And then it
would be my wonderful father, who was always
smiling. He was sitting around smiling, Edison
smiling, because we were all reading instead of
quarreling. No, I don't mean that, because we
didn't quarrel. And let's see now. So archivist,
let me think. Those two organizations, don't
forget them. The social club, which really I think
was organized to do for the boys that remained here
at Christmas. And later, more people had cars and
ways of transportation and so forth. So we didn't
have so many boys at that time. But they always had
the habit of inviting boys. But the boys were
rather slow about wanting to get under the eye of
the professors. They must have been a tough lot.
And then that study club, which drew us still more
together, you see. So when I was asked to join the
woman's club in Bryan, which is quite it, that's an
old club. I reneged because I felt that I owed it out
there to college. We lived at college. Now I kind of
wish I had joined them because I have many friends
in there. In Bryan, you see, we have friends
because we have never had these antagonisms.
We've gone to the church in Bryan. So we have so many
friends both ways. Well, let's see. Any more
people you want? Well, I was trying to think. You
must be Drew Pearson or something. No. No. Just a
curious person by nature. No. Well, I think not
Drew Pearson, but somebody else who was trying to
catch leaks, let's say. That's the proper way to
put it now. You see, we're living right now, even
though we're 85.
They tried to work. Our son tried to get him to join.
One of them tried to get him. It was not Drew
Pearson. I think Drew Pearson had died then. But it
was somebody else on that same line, only not as
grubby as Drew Pearson tried to get him to join him
for luncheon. But fortunately, Samory had
another engagement. And as he called us up and said
the other day, by the way, he's pretty high. They
don't have anybody in the State Department. All
they have is a whole lot of military people that
they write up this and that about. But has been vice
consul, consul, consul general in Ethiopia, and
consular for political affairs in our embassy in
Rome, and is now on the same floor as Kissinger. I
don't know how much I like that. Oh, you better
delete that or they'll bug my phone. And he doesn't
tell us anything. I was wondering, does he come
home very, does he come to College Station? Well,
it's been a great while. He came out here, and Dr.
Tom Harrington. Dr. Tom Harrington. He is the
chancellor emeritus that lived in on Creek, the
Creek Road. Carter Creek? Back, no, not Carter,
isn't that 32nd? It's, when you go on Wayside
Drive, If you know, that leads off from Villa Maria
Road. If you turn at Wayside Drive, you will cross
the street that he lives on, but it's some kind of
creek. And since he's retired, he moved to Bride.
And I think he was wise. Because coming as
Chancellor Emeritus and staying out there and
being nobody, it's better to come in to Bride. And
so I think he was wise on that. But he was so
interested in Samurai, and so was this older crowd
who all have died. And I think perhaps it was
instrumental in some of this Rotary.
He was also, he could have had a Fulbright, but he
preferred a Rotary because it was paid off in
American money, and the Fulbright scholarship or
fellowship or whatever was paid up in the European
money. American money, pretty smart. And he gets,
he was down here, I can't remember what year,
that's when he was in Ethiopia. And Dr. Tom
Harrington, who was in charge, he had retired as
chancellor, but he was doing something about
international students or something like that.
And he asked Ray, Sam Ray, to talk, to give a talk at
the the Memorial Center in one of the rooms up
there. I think it was the main ballroom. And about
his work. But he calls up very frequently. But he
has a pretty important job. Every bit of mail,
every bit of pouch, the couriers carry their
pouches strapped to their wrists with very secret
documents And they don't leak, I think. And so all
of that that comes in, he has to analyze and send it
in the right direction. So he called up one
particular time. And he always calls up on special
occasions. But I suppose we talk to each other
about two or three times a month. He called up, and
there was no particular reason for it. And I said,
well, what do you know? And he says, everything.
But I'm not allowed to tell it. So that, but nothing
ever gets into the battalion or into the, who at
McQuillan used to be in charge of the students,
the ex-students, or the alumni, or whatever.
Former students. And alumni. The Association of
the Former Students. The Former Students
Association, but they call it. They don't know the
word alumni, I guess.
But it never gets in any of their records. And he's
risen. He's in the secretariat, same floor as
Kissinger and those other people. And I could tell
quite a few things. that I have sort of survived
because I like to think about these things in time
together and make a life, a story, a world of them.
So I think you've about drained me now. I think I've
drained you both. I certainly appreciate it. I'm
going to cut this off. But I would like to turn it up.
He and Cam were here on the campus before we came and
before either of them married. and Camel from
Illinois, I think, and Coper from Kentucky. And
D.B. Coper, he's not the one that's sick, is he?
That's what I'd heard. Well, Mrs. Coper was raised
in Bryan, and she would know a lot about it here,
more than we, I'd say. And I don't know if you're
telling her that I suggested her because she knew
about as much as Mrs. Marsteller. who was raised on
the campus and has died. That's important. Sarah
Allen Cooper, do you know Allen Academy? She was
the daughter of the Allens. One of the older ones.
They're gone. And Mrs. Darnell, she's not living
around here, she's a sister. But Mrs. Cooper,
unless they would be, she would be disturbed.
She's very tense and nervous. I don't know how good
she would... I mean, you have to be lively, but not
tense. And so I don't know whether you could, but
she was raised in Brian. Therefore, she didn't
know. And she and Margaret Camel, Margaret Camel
was in Palestine and came visiting Sarah Allen for
events here. They were both from Randall-Macon.
They'd gone to college at Randall-Macon in
Virginia, Pittsburgh. And so she would visit. So
Dr. Camel, head of the Modern Language, and Phoebe
Coker, in the English department, he never became
head of it, but he became archivist. Yes, he was. He
was the first one. And they courted the two girls.
You see, they were blind dating and so on. So they,
and that, Mrs. Hamill is not the one to see into the
side. She's pretty far along in arthritis and
things like that. But otherwise, I would tell her
she's a very smart girl, woman, and has a good
education over there around making girls color.
But Mrs. Coker is quick and snappy like that, and I
don't know how she would take questions like that.
So, I don't mean there's anything wrong with their
mind. No, no.